# -RDK-X5-Deepseek
This research is based on the RDK X5 high-performance embedded platform, which deeply integrates Internet of Things (IoT) perception technology, computer vision, and large language models (DeepSeek). It has designed an innovative smart greenhouse management system that achieves a four-dimensional technology closed loop of "embedded platform + CV + LLM + IoT" for the first time in agricultural scenarios, addressing the pain point of weak intelligent decision-making capabilities in traditional systems. The aim is to achieve comprehensive and precise monitoring, intelligent decision-making, and automated management of crop growth environments. The RDK X5 has powerful computing capabilities and can deploy large-scale object detection models like YOLOv8s Detect and YOLOv8seg locally to detect pests and diseases in the greenhouse as well as fruit maturity. Thanks to the strong BPU of the X5, it can stably achieve 20 FPS, resulting in more accurate pest prediction and fruit growth detection, which improves production efficiency. On the cloud, it connects to the DeepSeek v3 large model: DeepSeek v3 possesses strong reasoning and learning abilities, enabling it to autonomously gather information from greenhouse sensors and customize its role as an "agricultural expert" through prompt engineering, learning from hundreds of thousands of agricultural knowledge entries and local historical data. By continuously learning from farmers' operational feedback, it can autonomously optimize decision logic and gradually build a dedicated farming knowledge graph. Laboratory experiments have verified that this system provides a reusable and cost-effective solution for smart agriculture, significantly enhancing the scientificity and sustainability of production management.
